clarify lag tolerance use case (#9828)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/deploy/dbt-state-about.md

- **Fresher data, lower costs**: Nodes only rebuild when the result would be different (new data or code changes), reducing warehouse compute while keeping production data fresh.
- **Faster iteration cycles**: In development, dbt automatically clones selected nodes from production whenever possible, so you spend less time waiting for builds and more time writing code.
- **Smarter than standard deferral**: Unlike standard deferral, which always builds selected nodes and only defers unselected upstream references, dbt State decides whether transformations need to run at all, or whether an existing table can simply be cloned.

> - **Model-level freshness threshold**: The [`lag_tolerance`](/reference/resource-configs/lag-tolerance) config controls the length of time required between source update detection timestamps before dbt rebuilds a node. It decouples downstream models from high-frequency upstream changes, and prevents costly rebuilds on stagnant data when an upstream dependency misses its freshness [Service Level Agreement (SLA)](https://www.getdbt.com/blog/data-slas-best-practices).

Author: ```suggestion
- **Model-level freshness threshold**: The [`lag_tolerance`](/reference/resource-configs/lag-tolerance) config controls the length of time required between the timestamp of the last node build and the timestamp of the most recent dbt detection of node source update to trigger the next node build. 

  It decouples downstream models from high-frequency upstream changes, and prevents costly rebuilds on stagnant data when an upstream dependency misses its freshness [Service Level Agreement (SLA)](https://www.getdbt.com/blog/data-slas-best-practices).
```

> - **Model-level freshness threshold**: The [`lag_tolerance`](/reference/resource-configs/lag-tolerance) config controls how much the source data can change before dbt rebuilds a node — measured by how much the source data has moved on since its last build, not wall-clock time. It decouples downstream models from high-frequency upstream changes, and prevents costly rebuilds on stagnant data when an upstream dependency misses its freshness [Service Level Agreement (SLA)](https://www.getdbt.com/blog/data-slas-best-practices).

Author: ```suggestion
- **Model-level freshness threshold**: The [`lag_tolerance`](/reference/resource-configs/lag-tolerance) config controls how much the source data can change before dbt rebuilds a node. dbt State measures this by how much the source data has moved on since its last build, rather than a wall-clock time. It decouples downstream models from high-frequency upstream changes, and prevents costly rebuilds on stagnant data when an upstream dependency misses its freshness [Service Level Agreement (SLA)](https://www.getdbt.com/blog/data-slas-best-practices).
```

> - **Model-level freshness threshold**: The [`lag_tolerance`](/reference/resource-configs/lag-tolerance) config controls how much the source data can change before dbt rebuilds a node. dbt State measures this by how much the source data has moved on since its last build, rather than a wall-clock time. It decouples downstream models from high-frequency upstream changes, and prevents costly rebuilds on stagnant data when an upstream dependency misses its freshness [Service Level Agreement (SLA)](https://www.getdbt.com/blog/data-slas-best-practices).

Reviewer: The "how much" here makes me think more about new source data row volume rather than time comparison. Also, we'll want to confirm this with product but if this lag_tolerance theory also applies to timestamps of code updates, more general phrasing about source update might be helpful.

Spitballing some other phrasing - what do you think?

"config controls the length of time required between source update detection timestamps before dbt rebuilds a node."

"config controls the length of time required between the timestamp of the last node build and the timestamp of the most recent dbt detection of node source update to trigger the next node build."

Author: great shout @savannah-dbt-labs ! am using your sugg!
